**Disclaimer:**

_**I am a programmer and I am NOT an accredited financial expert. You should
seek out an accredited financial expert for making serious investment decisions.
Do NOT take investment advice from random internet strangers and always do your
own research**._

# Overview

There are 3 types of averaging strategies for investing:

1. Cost Averaging
2. Dynamic Cost Averaging
3. Value Averaging

## Cost Averaging

**Cost Averaging** is an investment strategy where an investor invests the same
amount of money in a target
[security](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/security.asp) at regular
intervals over a certain period of time regardless of price. The goal of cost
averaging is to lower an investor's _average cost per share_ and _reduce the
impact of volatility_ on their portfolio.
[[1]](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/dollarcostaveraging.asp) Cost
Averaging encourages _buying and holding_. An investor typically doesn't sell
and invests with a _long-term horizon_ in mind.

## Dynamic Cost Averaging

**Dynamic Cost Averaging** is similar to Cost Averaging with the key difference
being that it encourages both _buying and selling_. This allows the investor to
take profits when the opportunity presents itself while maintaining the benefits
of lowering their _average cost per share_ and _reducing the impact of
volatility_ on their portfolio. An investor typically buys with a _long-term
investment horizon_ and sells with _short-term profits_ in mind.

This is known as a passive investment strategy because it _may generate
potential revenue_, allowing the investment to grow over time.

It's important to note that Dynamic Cost Averaging utilizes a factor-based
formula, whereas Cost Averaging utilizes a fixed amount to reduce the impact of
volatility.

## Value Averaging

**Value Averaging** is similar to Dynamic Cost Averaging, with the key
difference being that the investor sets a target growth rate.
[[2]](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/v/value_averaging.asp) This allows the
investor to buy or sell based on a target amount at a set interval. This method
produces the potential for both _increased risk and increased reward_ while
attempting to take advantage of potential market volatility.

This is also known as a passive investment strategy because it _may generate
potential revenue_, allowing the investment to compound over time based on a
growth rate.

It's important to note that Value Averaging utilizes a compound interest
formula, whereas Cost Averaging does not, and Dynamic Cost Averaging calculates
a factor-based target.
